Of those you listed, Kemet is best by a mile.
+1 to Chaos in the old World!  +0.75 to Kemet
Chaos in the old World Rising Sun Lords of Hellas Kemet Blood Rage
Surge1000 wrote:  Of those you listed, Kemet is best by a mile.   Strongly considering both Kemet and blood rage. They seem different enough to justify both.   Especially since it seems to be the majority vote here.     On a side note I have played both Inis and Cyclades and I enjoyed them both a great deal. Perhaps I am over thinking this. Hmm...
I like Nexus Ops, but I wouldn't call its randomness "minimal."   For your criteria I'd recommend  Kemet  in a heartbeat.
From your list, I would choose Kemet. But you're missing out on the greatest area control game ever...  El Grande !
Quote:  Cyclades is amazing. Get it. And then get Cyclades: Titans expansion. Skip Hades.    Nah, avoid Titans and get Hades.  Titans tries to change Cyclades into kemet.
Thanks everyone again for your help.  I bought  Blood Rage . It seems really solid.   I put Inis, Kemet, Clockwork Wars, and Cyclades on my wish-list.   FA
Tariff wrote:  All the listed games are great and different.   Definitely. Played most listed. All are solid and have different aims. Would add Shogun (the Wallenstein retheme), Tempus, and Risk:Legacy to the suggestions.   But Blood Rage and Kemet are great standard suggestions.
Haven't played any of those but Kemet seems to get high praise. I guess part of it would be what you are looking for? Area control? Dice/No Dice?  I would hands down recommend  Blood Rage  as it's just such a finely tuned game.
andreiszabo wrote:  From your list, I would choose Kemet. But you're missing out on the greatest area control game ever...  El Grande !  Nitpick but El Grande is an area influence game, not area control. Dudes on a Map games are almost always area control.
Nexus Ops and Cyclades are extremly good games  Kemet not so much, the turn order system is broken. I see it more as a kids game and it attracts people that dislike dice but still want something wargamy.   878: Vikings – Invasions of England  is very good, very enjoyable experience
Swaygodeus wrote:  Haven't played any of those but Kemet seems to get high praise. I guess part of it would be what you are looking for? Area control? Dice/No Dice?  I would hands down recommend  Blood Rage  as it's just such a finely tuned game.    If you are looking for more strategy and less luck. I recommend blood rage as well.  I also like zombicide: black plague but that adds more luck.
Dodb66 wrote:  Nexus Ops and Cyclades are extremly good games  Kemet not so much, the turn order system is broken. I see it more as a kids game and it attracts people that dislike dice but still want something wargamy.   878: Vikings – Invasions of England  is very good, very enjoyable experience      I don't mean to hijack this thread but I see you own the expansion. Do you think it fixes the issues with the base game?
FrostyAnkles wrote:  I have been considering the following games and would appreciate any input on the subject.   Kemet   Cyclades   Cry Havoc   Nexus Ops   My personal favorite of these four is Cyclades, but it doesn't actually have a lot of direct conflict.  Kemet is definitely more in-the-face.  I also like Cry Havoc, but like the (excellent)  Chaos in the Old World  it has very asymmetric factions, so you may want to be careful if you're worried about balance issues.  I see 'Nexus Ops' purely as an entry-level 'dudes-on-a-map' game, but it's probably the best. There's also 'Small World', which I consider very fun.  'Blood Wars' is a good choice if you enjoy drafting cards, but imho 'Inis' does a better job in that regard and 'Rising Sun' beats 'Blood Wars' in every other regard.   Clockwork Wars  is great, very underrated dudes-on-a-map game with secret, simultaneous unit deployment and high replayability.  Stomski wrote:  Check here ---&gt;  The Dudes on a Map Collector (2019)  Alas, this list is mostly useless since it considers every game a 'dudes-on-a-map' game that isn't either a dungeon crawler or an adventure game.
epilepticemu wrote:  Cyclades is amazing. Get it. And then get Cyclades: Titans expansion. Skip Hades.  Alternatively skip Titans and get Hades. It really depends on how much you like the base game gameplay.  If you feel it offers too little conflicts, Titans will help with that. If you just want to improve the basic gameplay a little, Hades is the way to go.  Personally, I only use Titans to support 6 players. Imho, if you're really looking for a game with more conflicts, get Kemet.
sloan66 wrote:  OK.  I'll take a stab at this.   Fief: France 1429   or  Stronghold  might fit the bill.  Both games are going to run longer then two hours though.  But they do hit  every  other item on your list.  Fief is currently in print, so you wouldn't have any trouble finding it,and Stronghold Second Edition should be out in October.   Fief should fit the requirement of low luck? In no way!  +1 Kemet Low luck - check Highly agressive - check 2h - check Thematic - check The most aggressiv euro i know of.
Hey guys/gals  I have been having tough time trying to pick my "first" dudes on a map game.  There seems to be a lot of good options and its tough to know what I will enjoy.   I caught bug after playing  Root . While I enjoy the game It left me wanting more. It seems to suffer from balance issues and I am not a big fan of the combat. This is my opinion of course.   I have been considering the following games and would appreciate any input on the subject.   Kemet   Cyclades   Cry Havoc   Nexus Ops   I really appreciate the help guys.
Based on what you're looking for, another vote for Kemet.  There are different rules to resolve turn order if you have the expansion.  For the base game, turn order is determined by the player with the lowest vps.  Combat is resolved by cards, no dice.  The game is focused on combat, winning battles and taking over temple spaces are the primary ways of scoring vps.  Nexus Ops is OK, but uses dice to resolve combat.  It is also the lightest game in terms of complexity on your list.  Cyclades has more eurogame elements and is less focused on combat.  Cry Havoc just didn't work for me in general for a variety of reasons so I would not recommend.
monstrooper wrote:  Based on what you're looking for, another vote for Kemet.  There are different rules to resolve turn order if you have the expansion.  For the base game, turn order is determined by the player with the lowest vps.  Combat is resolved by cards, no dice.  The game is focused on combat, winning battles and taking over temple spaces are the primary ways of scoring vps.  Nexus Ops is OK, but uses dice to resolve combat.  It is also the lightest game in terms of complexity on your list.  Cyclades has more eurogame elements and is less focused on combat.  Cry Havoc just didn't work for me in general for a variety of reasons so I would not recommend.   Not everyone sees diceless combat as a benefit. I've played around 10 games of Kemet and haven't lost a single one but haven't really enjoyed them either because there's little tension. And it's not even like there is no randomness, while the cards, when you remember what everyone played give you a good degree of certainty the DI cards introduce randomness and so does multiplayer play. Take away that randomness and it all comes down to turn order making the game even worse then it is. The player who goes last has the biggest potential of running away with the game, this is a problem in all these types of games but in Kemet it really stands out in my opinion. The better people get at this game the more turn order matters.  So it's not like it's not random, it's just very exciting. Dice introduce tension, you don't know with 100% certainty you can win but you can still optimise. Also you have good and bad implementations of dice combat. If you have silly low percentages of hitting then I agree, dice lead to frustration but there are many games where the probabilities are really good depending on how wel you play. That's good fun because there's little to no frustration but still on occasion things go wrong and that keeps it tense (the whole dopamine thing), good tactics get rewarded but you never really know. I think a fear of dice comes from playing bad games mostly unless you are a chess player or someone really used to open information and zero randomness. I can respect that.
Dodb66 wrote:   monstrooper wrote:  Based on what you're looking for, another vote for Kemet.  There are different rules to resolve turn order if you have the expansion.  For the base game, turn order is determined by the player with the lowest vps.  Combat is resolved by cards, no dice.  The game is focused on combat, winning battles and taking over temple spaces are the primary ways of scoring vps.  Nexus Ops is OK, but uses dice to resolve combat.  It is also the lightest game in terms of complexity on your list.  Cyclades has more eurogame elements and is less focused on combat.  Cry Havoc just didn't work for me in general for a variety of reasons so I would not recommend.   Not everyone sees diceless combat as a benefit. I've played around 10 games of Kemet and haven't lost a single one but haven't really enjoyed them either because there's little tension. And it's not even like there is no randomness, while the cards, when you remember what everyone played give you a good degree of certainty the DI cards introduce randomness and so does multiplayer play. Take away that randomness and it all comes down to turn order making the game even worse then it is. The player who goes last has the biggest potential of running away with the game, this is a problem in all these types of games but in Kemet it really stands out in my opinion. The better people get at this game the more turn order matters.  So it's not like it's not random, it's just very exciting. Dice introduce tension, you don't know with 100% certainty you can win but you can still optimise. Also you have good and bad implementations of dice combat. If you have silly low percentages of hitting then I agree, dice lead to frustration but there are many games where the probabilities are really good depending on how wel you play. That's good fun because there's little to no frustration but still on occasion things go wrong and that keeps it tense (the whole dopamine thing), good tactics get rewarded but you never really know. I think a fear of dice comes from playing bad games mostly unless you are a chess player or someone really used to open information and zero randomness. I can respect that.      Well Said  Some of my favorite games use dice. (E.G  Troyes ) Perhaps I was too hasty to write off dice rolling for combat.   It sounds like If I decide on  Kemet  then I really need the expansion that resolves the turn over issues. It is also difficult to find around me. I may need to revisit this game at another time.   Clockwork Wars  Looks really good but It seems impossible to find a copy that isn't massively overpriced.   Blood Rage . I am leaning really heavily toward getting this one. I hesitate as I am not sure about depth.    Inis  &amp;  Cyclades  Played both these before like I mentioned and I really liked them. My hesitation is I can play them anytime at my local game store.    Cry Havoc  Looked good initially but I wrote it off as there seems to be a lot complaints about balance.    Nexus Ops  Is a mixed bag for me. I worry it might be too light and become boring quickly.   That's were I am at so far. Still have yet to look into other suggestions.
FrostyAnkles wrote:  Hey guys/gals  I have been having tough time trying to pick my "first" dudes on a map game.  There seems to be a lot of good options and its tough to know what I will enjoy.   I caught bug after player  Root . While I enjoy the game It left me wanting more. It seems to suffer from balance issues and I am not a big fan of the combat. This is my opinion of course.   I have been considering the following games and would appreciate any input on the subject.   Kemet   Cyclades   Cry Havoc   Nexus Ops   I really appreciate the help guys.     I havent played Root.  What didnt you like about the combat in it?
Wow! Thanks for so many great suggestions everyone! Keep them coming!   Games mentioned that look awesome and I am going to order:  - Pax Porfiriana (love card driven historical games) - Clockwork Wars (love non-trading card driven games) - Chaos in the Old World  - Alchemists - Tammany Hall   Games mentioned that look promising:  - Kemet - Age of Empires III - Carson City  - Spartacus   Re: person who mentioned "Dominant Species" - that game looks like EXACTLY what i want, I had researched it before I even started this thread. When I saw the play time though   I will probably still check it out though, even though it isn't under 2 hours. Looks too good (modular board, dog eat dog atmosphere, impending doom)     papagamer72 wrote:   Eclipse    Can Eclipse be played in 2 hours with 4 people?
AHShole wrote:   FrostyAnkles wrote:  Hey guys/gals  I have been having tough time trying to pick my "first" dudes on a map game.  There seems to be a lot of good options and its tough to know what I will enjoy.   I caught bug after player  Root . While I enjoy the game It left me wanting more. It seems to suffer from balance issues and I am not a big fan of the combat. This is my opinion of course.   I have been considering the following games and would appreciate any input on the subject.   Kemet   Cyclades   Cry Havoc   Nexus Ops   I really appreciate the help guys.     I havent played Root.  What didnt you like about the combat in it?   1. Randomness of dice rolls. 2. Luck of draw for ambush cards.   I am fine with some luck but it felt like if you drew really poorly and rolled badly then it didnt matter what your strategy was. There were some things to offset this but overall It lacked the epic struggle I was looking for. Still a great game but did not scratch my itch.
FrostyAnkles wrote:   AHShole wrote:   FrostyAnkles wrote:  Hey guys/gals  I have been having tough time trying to pick my "first" dudes on a map game.  There seems to be a lot of good options and its tough to know what I will enjoy.   I caught bug after player  Root . While I enjoy the game It left me wanting more. It seems to suffer from balance issues and I am not a big fan of the combat. This is my opinion of course.   I have been considering the following games and would appreciate any input on the subject.   Kemet   Cyclades   Cry Havoc   Nexus Ops   I really appreciate the help guys.     I havent played Root.  What didnt you like about the combat in it?   1. Randomness of dice rolls. 2. Luck of draw for ambush cards.   I am fine with some luck but it felt like if you drew really poorly and rolled badly then it didnt matter what your strategy was. There were some things to offset this but overall It lacked the epic struggle I was looking for. Still a great game but did not scratch my itch.     Cry Havoc  will be more what you are looking for.  Avoid  Nexus Ops
Would second Blood Rage or Root.  Blood Rage if you like crazy combos and bluffing. It very easy to pick up and play as well. The whole 'you can win by losing' thing is genius as unlike typical area control/war games, in Blood Rage (and Rising Sun too) you are unsure about whether attacking your opponents is a good idea or not - as they might be wanting you to attack them all along! Which leads to lots of mind games (not to mention the ensuing cursing and general hilarity).  Root if you want more of a traditional war game with dice rolls but with such a great deal of asymmetry that some factions aren't even playing an area control game. It isn't actually that hard to teach as most of what players need to know is printed on their player mats. The biggest problem with Root is that turns are long until players are experienced with the game.  And I'd definitely not consider Scythe as scratching the 'dudes on a map' itch, it's very much a euro engine builder with some combat tacked on (and players aren't encouraged to go out and fight their opponents either).  Heard good things about Lords of Hellas and Kemet as well but yet to try them.  Rising Sun is also great, but it's more a game of diplomatic war like the Game of Thrones game, which might not be to everyones taste. You certainly have a lot less player agency compared to Blood Rage or Root.
FrostyAnkles wrote:  Hey guys/gals  I have been having tough time trying to pick my "first" dudes on a map game.  There seems to be a lot of good options and its tough to know what I will enjoy.   I caught bug after playing  Root . While I enjoy the game It left me wanting more. It seems to suffer from balance issues and I am not a big fan of the combat. This is my opinion of course.   I have been considering the following games and would appreciate any input on the subject.   Kemet   Cyclades   Cry Havoc   Nexus Ops   I really appreciate the help guys.     Personally my favorite on this list is  Cry Havoc  and it's one of my all-time favorite games. Like Root, Cry Havoc is HEAVILY asymmetrical and requires you to really get in depth with each faction and play to their strengths. You cannot play each faction the same and because of this it gets a bad wrap for being unbalanced but,  IT IS BALANCED . However you will need to invest time to learn each faction and their special abilities. Many of the detractors did not do this and that's why it's not nearly as popular as others on this list.  If that is not for you, then I would highly recommend  Blood Rage  over any of the others on your list. Blood Rage plays meh at 2, but amazing at all other player counts, and there are countless strategies to play. It's a ton of fun and one of the better dudes on a maps games out there.
